Shortcodes
===

[THIS DOCUMENT IS A WORKING DRAFT]

They idea for shortcodes in Mashine was taken directly from WordPress. This is
something that we like very much in WordPress ;-)

Shortcodes allow you to add dynamic content using a very simple syntax. When
you add a shortcode in your content it gets magically replaced with the desired
output when the page is rendered.

This allow a very smooth integration of functionality from within the content
itself. A simple example would be adding a contact form. Mashine comes with a
plugin that does exactly that. In order to add a form to our site we would
simply add a page or post and include the `[contactform]` shortcode in the body.
When we browse the new page we should see a pretty contact form. That simple.

Mashine comes with a few useful predefined shortcodes, but plugins can (and in
fact are encouraged to) define new ones and add functionality using the
Shortcode API.

## Where can I use shortcodes?

Shortcodes can be used in:

* the body of a post or page.
* custom templates or views
* partial views
* themes

## Syntax

The syntax for shorcodes is very simple. If you have used WordPress before you
will probably be familiar by now. It goes something like:

`[keyword option1="value1" option2="value2" ...]`

## Predefined shortcodes

* * *

### [content]

[NOT IMPLEMENTED YET]

* * *

### [nav]

The `[nav]` shortcode gives us a simple interface to create navigational
elements based on the content tree. Using this shortcode we can print menus,
breadcrumbs, sitemap...

#### Options

* ##### type ( _string_ )

  Default: "sitemap"

  This option determines the kind of navigation element we want to print.

  Available types:

    * "sitemap" - This is the default value and it will print the content tree as
    nested unordered lists.

    * "parent" - Prints the tree starting from the currently active top level
    node. This is used for 'sub navigation'.

    * "branch" - Print only the branch starting from the currently active node.

    * "breadcrumbs" - Print breadcrumbs.

* ##### depth ( _int_ )

  Default: 0

  This option specifies how many levels deep should be displayed. When set to 0
  the depth is ignored (this is the default behaviour).

* ##### exclude ( _string_ )

  Default: _null_

  A list of comma separated values containing the 'slugs' of nodes to exclude.

* ##### show\_root ( _bool_ )

  Default: _true_

  Flag indicating whether the root node should be displayed.

* ##### show\_root\_as\_child ( _bool_ )

  Default: _false_

  If set to TRUE the root node will be displayed along with its own children.

* ##### show\_forbidden ( _bool_ )

  Default: _false_

  Ignore access permissions and display all nodes regardless of whether the
  current user has permission to read the node or not.

#### Examples

##### Show full sitemap tree

If we add the `[nav]` shortcode in a page or post it will be replaced by the
following markup:

    <ul>
        <li>
            <a href="http://localhost/" class="parent">Home</a>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <a href="http://localhost/top1" class="active">Top1</a>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <a href="http://localhost/top2">Top2</a>
                    <ul>
                        <li>
                            <a href="http://localhost/top1/sub1">Top1 Sub1</a>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <a href="http://localhost/top1/sub2">Top1 Sub2</a>
                        </li>
                    </ul>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <a href="http://localhost/top3">Top3</a>
                </li>
            </ul>
        </li>
    </ul>

##### Show top level navigation excluding a node with a slug of 'user/signin'

    [nav depth="1" show_forbidden="true" show_root="false" exclude="user/signin"]

##### Print the breadcrumbs

    [nav type="breadcrumbs"]

##### Show sub level navigation for currently selected top level node

    [nav type="parent" depth="1" show_root="false"]

* * *

### [media]

The media shortcode allows us to add media "galleries" or individual media
assets to pages or posts.

#### Options

* ##### path ( _string_ )

  Defaut: ""

  Relative path to media directory or file.

* ##### mode ( _string_ )

  Default: "simple"

  Possible values: "simple", "classic" or "lighbox".

* ##### subdirs ( _bool_ )

  Default: true

  Boolean indicating whether or not to display subdirectories if any.

* * *

### [sidebar]

[NOT IMPLEMENTED YET]

* * *

### [social]

This shortcode is provided by the "Social" plugin and provides a simple
interface to fetch RSS/Atom feeds with special options for Twitter and Facebook
feeds.

#### Options

* ##### type ( _string_ )

  Default: "feed"

  This option determines the kind of data source we want to fetch.

  Available types:

    * "feed" - This is the default value and it fetch a standard RSS or Atom
    feed from the url specified in the 'url' attribute.

    * "twitter" - This is a Twitter specific type that knows how to 'twiterify'
    the feed items.

    * "facebook" - Facebook specific type. Note that this only works with
    Facebook pages. You will need to provide the Facebook page id in the 'user' 
    attribute.

* ##### url ( _string_ )

  Default: ""

  This option is required when using the "feed" type.

* ##### count ( _int_ )

  Default: 0

  This option determines the number of feed items to display. If not specified
  or set to 0 all entries in the feed will be shown.

* ##### user ( _string_ )

  Default: null

  This is an optional parameter used when the type attribute is set to wither
  'twitter' or 'facebook'.

* ##### show_title ( _bool_ )

  Default: true

  Flag indicating whether the item titles should be displayed.

* ##### show_description ( _bool_ )

  Default: true

  Flag indicating whether the item descriptions should be displayed.

* ##### twitterify ( _bool_ )

  Default: false

  Flag indicating whether entries should be parsed using Twitter's mentions and
  hash tag syntax. This is switched on by default when type is set to 'twitter'.

#### Examples

##### Display latest 5 entries in twitter feed for user 'lupomontero'

    [social type="twitter" user="enoisecom" count="5"]

##### Display latest item from Facebook page feed

    [social type="facebook" user="258452708896" count="1"]

##### Display RSS feed and set some custom options

    [social type="feed" url="http://screenr.com/user/enoisecom/rss" count="2" show_title="0" twitterify="1" user="enoisecom"]

* * *

### [contactform]

This shortcode is provided by the "Contact form" plugin. So far it has no options.

* * *
