Themes API
===

[THIS DOCUMENT IS A WORKING DRAFT]

This document should list all available objects within the themes and some
examples of common things people will need to do when writing their own themes.

### Static file revving

You will see in the default theme that CSS and JavaScript assets are loaded
using a variable with a version number as part of the file names. This is in
order to force the browser to re-download style sheets or scripts when they are
updated while remaining properly cached as long as they don't change.

This feature has been implemented as requested in the
[issue tracker](https://github.com/E-NOISE/Mashine/issues#issue/5).

To use file revving simply add `--v` followed by some useful version identifier
before the file extension `.js` or `.css`. The web server will ignore the
`--vX.X.X` bit by means of a
[rewrite rule](https://github.com/E-NOISE/Mashine/blob/master/public/.htaccess#L10).

For example, we have a js file in public/themes/mytheme/js/script.js and want to use
the revving feature to load it. In our theme file we would load it like this:

`<script src="<?php echo $base_url; ?>themes/mytheme/js/script--v0.1.js"></script>`

The file name on disk remains the same. It is only in the theme that we need to
load the assets including the version info. In the default theme the CSS and
JavaScript files included with Mashine are loaded using Mashine's release
number, as this files will only change when upgrading to a newer version.
However you can use any automated o hardcoded version identifiers as long as
they follow the `--v` convention.
